[KHRGA-31] Updated DA Address Space Classes (#109)
KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference: source/iface/address-space.rst

  Copyright 2020 The Khronos Group Inc.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

.. _address_space_classes:

*********************
Address space classes
*********************

> There are five different address spaces (see also :ref:`address_space`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In SYCL, there are five different address spaces (see also :ref:`address_space`):
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

* global;
* local;
* constant;
* private;
* generic.

> In a SYCL generic implementation, types are not affected by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the SYCL generic address space, types are not affected by the
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

address spaces. However, there are situations where users need
to explicitly carry address spaces in the type.

For example:

> * For performance tuning and genericness. Even if the platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For performance tuning. Even if the platform
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

  supports the representation of the generic address space,

>   this may come at some performance sacrifice. In order to help

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  this may come with performance implications. In order to help
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

>   the target compiler, it can be useful to track specifically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the target compiler, it may sometimes be useful to track explicitly
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

  which address space a pointer is addressing.

* When linking SYCL kernels with SYCL backend-specific functions.

>   In this case, it might be necessary to specify the address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In this case it might be necessary to specify the address
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

  space for any pointer parameters.

Direct declaration of pointers with address spaces is discouraged

> as the definition is implementation-defined. Users must rely on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as the definition is implementation-defined. Users should use
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

  namespace sycl::access {

    enum class address_space : /* unspecified */ {
      global_space,
      local_space,
      constant_space, // Deprecated in SYCL 2020
      private_space,
      generic_space
    };

  } // namespace sycl::access

.. _access-decorated:

===========================
``sycl::access::decorated``
===========================

::

  namespace sycl {

  namespace access {

  enum class decorated : /* unspecified */ {
    no,
    yes,
    legacy // Deprecated in SYCL 2020
  };

  } // namespace access

  template <typename T> struct remove_decoration {
    using type = /* ... */;
  };

  template <typename T> using remove_decoration_t = remove_decoration<T>::type;

  } // namespace sycl

The :ref:`multi_ptr` class exposes 3 flavors of the
same interface:

* If the value of ``sycl::access::decorated`` is
  ``sycl::access::decorated::no``, the interface exposes pointers and
  references type that are not decorated by an address space.
* If the value of ``sycl::access::decorated`` is
  ``sycl::access::decorated::yes``, the interface exposes pointers and
  references type that are decorated by an address space.
* If the value of  ``sycl::access::decorated`` is

>   ``sycl::access::decorated::legacy``, the 1.2.1 interface is exposed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``sycl::access::decorated::legacy``, the SYCL 1.2.1 interface is exposed.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

  This interface is deprecated.

> The decoration is implementation dependent and relies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The decoration is implementation dependent and may rely
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

on device compiler extensions.

> The decorated type may be distinct from the non-decorated one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The decorated type may be distinct from the non-decorated type.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

For interoperability with the SYCL backend, users
should rely on types exposed by the decorated version.

The template traits ``sycl::remove_decoration`` and type alias
``sycl::remove_decoration_t`` retrieve the non-decorated pointer
or reference from a decorated one. Using this template trait
with a non-decorated type is safe and returns the same type.

.. _multi_ptr:

===================
``sycl::multi_ptr``
===================

::

  template <typename ElementType, access::address_space Space,
            access::decorated DecorateAddress = access::decorated::legacy>
  class multi_ptr;

  // Specialization of multi_ptr for void and const void
  // VoidType can be either void or const void
  template <access::address_space Space, access::decorated DecorateAddress>
  class multi_ptr<VoidType, Space, DecorateAddress>;

.. rubric:: Template parameters

===================  ==========

> ``ElementType``      Type of pointed value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``ElementType``      Type of pointee value.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

``Space``            Selected address space (see :ref:`address_space`).
``DecorateAddress``  See :ref:`access-decorated`.
===================  ==========

The ``sycl::multi_ptr`` class is the common interface for the explicit
pointer classes, defined in :ref:`explicit_pointer_aliases`.

There are situations where a user may want to make their type address
space dependent. This allows performing generic programming that depends
on the address space associated with their data.
An example might be wrapping a pointer inside a class, where a user may
need to template the class according to the address space of the pointer
the class is initialized with. In this case, the ``sycl::multi_ptr``
class enables users to do this in a portable and stable way.

> You can select address space via :ref:`address_space` ``Space`` template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select address space via the :ref:`address_space` ``Space`` template
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

> parameter and also interface type via :ref:`access-decorated`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameter and also interface type via the :ref:`access-decorated`
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

``DecorateAddress`` template parameter.

It is possible to use the ``void`` type for the ``sycl::multi_ptr`` class,
but in that case some functionality is disabled. ``sycl::multi_ptr<void>``
does not provide the ``reference`` or ``const_reference`` types, the access
operators (``operator*()``, ``operator->()``), the arithmetic operators or

> ``prefetch`` member function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the ``prefetch`` member function.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

``constexpr`` values
====================

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Field
    - Value
  * - ``is_decorated``
    - Equals to ``DecorateAddress == sycl::access::decorated::yes``.
  * - ``address_space``
    - Equals to ``Space`` template parameter value.

Member types
============

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Type
    - Description
  * - ``value_type``

>     - Type of pointed value (``ElementType``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Type of pointee value (``ElementType``).
```

::

  sycl::multi_ptr& operator=(std::nullptr_t);

Assigns ``nullptr`` to the ``sycl::multi_ptr``.

.. rubric:: Overload 4

::

  template <sycl::access::address_space AS,
            sycl::access::decorated IsDecorated>
  sycl::multi_ptr&
  operator=(const sycl::multi_ptr<value_type, AS, IsDecorated>&);

.. note::

  Available only when:
  ::

    (Space == sycl::access::address_space::generic_space &&
     AS != sycl::access::address_space::constant_space)

Assigns the value of the left hand side
``sycl::multi_ptr`` into the ``sycl::generic_ptr``.

.. rubric:: Overload 5

::

  template<sycl::access::address_space AS,
           sycl::access::decorated IsDecorated>
  sycl::multi_ptr&
  operator=(sycl::multi_ptr<value_type, AS, IsDecorated>&&);

.. note::

  Available only when:
  ::

    (Space == sycl::access::address_space::generic_space &&
     AS != sycl::access::address_space::constant_space)

Move the value of the left hand side
``sycl::multi_ptr`` into the ``sycl::generic_ptr``.

``operator[]``
--------------

::

  reference operator[](std::ptrdiff_t i) const;

Available only when: ``!std::is_void_v<value_type>``.

Returns a reference to the ``i``th pointed

> value. The value ``i`` can be negative.

Reviewer: The formatting here is broken in the rendered doc

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f

.. rubric:: Overload 3

::

  template <sycl::access::decorated IsDecorated>
  operator multi_ptr<const value_type, Space,
                     IsDecorated>() const;

Implicit conversion to a ``sycl::multi_ptr`` of type ``const value_type``.

.. rubric:: Overload 4

::

  operator multi_ptr<value_type, Space,
                     sycl::access::decorated::no>() const;

Available only when: ``is_decorated == true``.

Implicit conversion to the equivalent ``sycl::multi_ptr``
object that does not expose decorated pointers or references.

.. rubric:: Overload 5

::

  operator multi_ptr<value_type, Space,
                     sycl::access::decorated::yes>() const;

Available only when: ``is_decorated == false``.

Implicit conversion to the equivalent ``sycl::multi_ptr``
object that exposes decorated pointers or references.

Member functions
================

``get``
-------

::

  pointer get() const;

Returns the underlying pointer. Whether the pointer is
decorated depends on the value of ``DecorateAddress``.

``get_decorated``
-----------------

::

  __unspecified__* get_decorated() const;

Returns the underlying pointer decorated by the address
space that it addresses.

.. note::

>   The support involves implementation-defined device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Support may involve implementation-defined device
```

Comparison operator ``<=`` for ``sycl::multi_ptr`` class.

::

  bool operator<=(const sycl::multi_ptr& lhs, std::nullptr_t);

  bool operator<=(std::nullptr_t, const sycl::multi_ptr& rhs);

Comparison operator ``<=`` for ``sycl::multi_ptr`` class
with a ``std::nullptr_t``.

``operator>=``
--------------

::

  bool operator>=(const sycl::multi_ptr& lhs, const sycl::multi_ptr& rhs);

Comparison operator ``>=`` for ``sycl::multi_ptr`` class.

::

  bool operator>=(const sycl::multi_ptr& lhs, std::nullptr_t);

  bool operator>=(std::nullptr_t, const sycl::multi_ptr& rhs);

Comparison operator ``>=`` for ``sycl::multi_ptr`` class
with a ``std::nullptr_t``.

.. _explicit_pointer_aliases:

========================
Explicit pointer aliases
========================

SYCL provides aliases to the :ref:`multi_ptr` class template
for each specialization of :ref:`address_space`.

A synopsis of the SYCL :ref:`multi_ptr` class template aliases
is provided below.

.. note::

  Using ``sycl::global_ptr``, ``sycl::local_ptr``, ``sycl::constant_ptr`` or
  ``sycl::private_ptr`` without specifying the decoration is deprecated.

>   The default argument is provided for compatibility with 1.2.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The default argument is provided for compatibility with SYCL 1.2.1.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed with commit : https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL_Reference/pull/109/commits/81dbb1b7fe4ce81bbb486cf20599c9459a09671f
